# Academic-calendar-generation
Automation is a technique, method, or system of operating or controlling a process by highly automatic means, as by electronic devices, reducing human intervention to a minimum. Automation is reducing manual efforts and manual errors by doing a change in the process or writing a piece of code. Advantages commonly attributed to automation include higher production rates and increased productivity, more efficient use of materials, better product quality, and faster results and so on. Without even recognizing it, many of us already interact with automation on a daily basis to simplify everyday tasks. We receive automated order confirmations after placing online orders, use “smart” devices to regulate our thermostat and lock our doors when away from home, or maybe use a parking assist feature on our car. These kinds of automations are infiltrating workplaces and homes, industries act at a rapid pace. Despite all of this, the impact that automation has on education systems is hardly considered. The aim of our project is to develop a stand-alone application which will generate a comprehensive and well organized academic calendar for an educational institution. The software will take the starting date and end date of a particular semester as the input and come up with a detailed and cohesive schedule taking into consideration various parameters such as the number of contact hours for each subject, number of hours allocated for lab sessions , national holidays etc .If there is a shortage of hours pertaining the software will show the number of lagging hours or extra hours. So that it will be used by any Educational Institution to frame the number of working days effectively. This software would definitely prove to be extremely purposeful and convenient for both the faculty and the students and will elevate the productivity level by multiple folds.
